.TH GMSH2TECTON 1 "October 19, 2018" "Utrecht University"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
gmsh2tecton \- extracts \fIGTECTON\fP data from \fIgmsh\fP output
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBgmsh2tecton\fP [-c|-e|-n ISPEC|-s ISPEC] [-i meshfile] [-o outputfile] [-v]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgmsh2tecton\fP is an interface program between mesh generator \fIGmsh\fP
and finite element code \fIGTECTON\fP. It can be used to create input files for \fBGTECTON\fP, 
or to select nodes or elements based on their tags (labels). 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.BI "-I"
Show info on the main ingredients of the mesh file
.TP
.BI "-c"
Extract \fIGTECTON\fP formatted nodal point coordinates (default).
.TP
.BI "-e"
Extract \fIGTECTON\fP formatted element definitions.
.TP
.BI "-n ISPEC"
Extract node numbers with (integer) label/tag ISPEC. It is important to realize the hierarchy of 
the tags. Point labels take priority over line labels over surface labels. This is how you can assign 
label 10 to a surface, label 20 to its edge lines, and label 30 to its edge points.
.TP
.BI "-s ISPEC"
Extract the numbers of elements that have an integer surface label/tag ISPEC. Output columns represent element#,
face#, the unit outward normal vector to the element face and the surface area of the interface. This option is useful 
for defining tractions on surfaces.
.TP
.BI "-f ISPEC"
Extract element numbers with (integer) fault surface label ISPEC. This option is useful for defining both slippery
and faulted nodes.
Output columns represent element#, node# of the element interface, and the unit vector from the element center to the node, line center, or triangle center (See also: -m and -t output modifiers).
.TP
.BI "-i meshfile"
\fIGmsh\fP mesh file. If not given, \fIgmsh2tecton\fP reads from standard input.
\fIGmsh\fP can handle msh file formats version 2. Version 4 is not yet supported but you
can use Mesh.MshFileVersion=2.2 in your \fIGmsh\fP .geo file to get version 2 output.
.TP
.BI "-l"
Writes line segments from the mesh file to a VTK file.
.TP
.BI "-m"
This option modifies the output when -f is used, by adding the first coordinate of the point, line or triangle as the last three columns of the output.
.TP
.BI "-o filename"
Writes output to output file.
.TP
.BI "-v"
Verbose output, i.e., report main stages of the program.
.TP
.BI "-t"
When option -f is used, this option adds the physical volume tag of the element to the output.
This is particularly useful when each side of a fault has a different material number
so that the material number can be used to indentify on which side of the fault
an element is located.
Output columns represent element#, node#, and volume tag of the element, and the unit vector from the element center to the node, line center, or triangle center.
.TE
.SH EXAMPLES
Show main info from the mesh file:
.br
.ce 1
gmsh2tecton -I -i box.msh 
.sp 2
Extract tetrahedral elements from the mesh file:
.br
.ce 1
gmsh2tecton -e -i domain.msh
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIgmsh\fP, \fIf3d(1)\fP, \fIf3d(7)\fP, \fIplt3d\fP
.SH AUTHOR
Rob Govers.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs to Rob Govers (r.govers@uu.nl).
