.TH PICKNPS 1 "July 20, 2021" "University of Utrecht"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
picknps \- select node numbers
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBpicknps\fP -n tecin.dat.nps [-d 2|3] [-s selectionfile] [-m marker] [-x xvalue[:xmax]] [-y yvalue[:ymax]] [-z zvalue[:zmax]] [-e epsilon]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpicknps\fP is a program for selecting node number
on the basis of coloring (markers) or coodinate. This greatly simplifies
application of boundary conditions, or further selection of element sides with
\fIelmside\fP.
It works directly with the \fIGTECTON\fP nodal points files.
.SH VERSION
2018
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.BI "-n tecin.dat.nps"
\fIpln\fP or \fIopn\fP format nodal point coordinate file.
.TP
.BI "-s selectionfile"
\fIselectionfile\fP contains markers, x-coordinates, y-coordinates, or pairs of x and y-coordinates.
Grouping selection criteria will be more efficient than calling \fIpicknps\fP consecutively with different criteria.
.TP
.BI "-d dimension"
Specify the spatial dimension of the problem (2 or 3). Default=2.
.TP
.BI "-m marker"
\fItriangle\fP marker, for instance of some boundary. Note that an error margin is not required here. Also note that marker zero typically selects all the nodes on the inside of the domain, so be warned.
.TP
.BI "-x xvalue"
Node x-coordinate.
.TP
.BI "-y yvalues"
Node y-coordinate.
.TP
.BI "-z zvalues"
Node z-coordinate (only in three dimensions).
.TP
.BI "-e epsilon"
Search radius for coordinate selection. Use if coordinate is not found. To prevent numerical errors 
when searching around coordinates, it is advised to always use a small radius, as in \fB-e 1\fP
.TE
.SH EXAMPLES
picknps -n tecin.dat.nps -m 6 

picknps -n tecin.dat.nps -s select.s -e 10 -d 2
.TE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fItriangle(1)\fP, \fIelmside\fP(1), \fIpln(1)\fP, \fIopn(1)\fP
.SH AUTHORS
Rob Govers, Lukas van de Wiel
.SH BUGS
Report bugs to Rob Govers (r.govers@uu.nl).
