'\" t
.TH PLN 1 "August 4, 2023" "Utrecht University"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
pln \- thermo-mechanical finite element program for 2-D geometry
calculations.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBpln\fP [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIpln\fP performs finite element (FE) calculations to solve the mechanical
equilibrium as well as the heat equation. Temperature-dependent
material properties and non-linear rheologies are implemented.
\fIpln\fP is the 2D version of the massively parallel \fBGTECTON\fP FE package.
.PP
When called without arguments, \fIpln\fP assumes that an input file, named
TECIN.DAT, exists in the current working directory. In this file, 
nodal point coordinates, mechanical boundary conditions, material properties
and elements are defined. This file also contains switch variables
which control, for instance, the solution mode. If thermal solutions are
requested, a second file (TEMPIN.DAT) is required to define the thermal
problem.
Refer to textbooks on the finite element method and the GTECTON equations manual
(see LITERATURE) for the underlying principles.

The typical workflow of a pln run typically consists of the following stages:

\fB1\fP Creating the FEM input files:
(a) Creating the mesh (see: \fItriangle\fP and \fIshowme\fP);
(b) Setting initial conditions and the boundary conditions (see: \fIpicknps\fP and \fIelmside\fP);
(c) Partitioning the mesh (see: \fIpartition\fP)
(d) Verifying the FEM input (see: \fIplnplt\fP and \fIGMT\fP).

\fB2\fP Computing the finite element solution (see: \fImpirun\fP and \fIqsub\fP)

\fB3\fP Merging the FEM output files produced by all the threads (see: \fImergefiles\fP).
This step is also needed for a single-processor run.

\fB4\fP Postprocessing and visualizing the FEM results(see: \fIplnplt\fP and \fIGMT\fP).

.SH VERSION
2023.05
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "partinfo=file"
Gives name of the file with partitioning information.
Note that this file is always required, even for single-processor
runs. The default file name is partition.info.
.TP
.BI "as[cii] or nobi[nary]"
Writes ASCII (human-readible) data to
.IR workpath/FEDSK.DAT.
The default is binary.
.TP
.BI "bi[nary] or noas[cii]"
Write binary FE-output data to
.IR workpath/FEDSK.DAT.
This is the default.
.TP
.BI "test[=0|1|2]"
test[=0]: No testing (default)
.br
test=1: HIGHLY RECOMMENDED AFTER YOU SET UP A NEW MODEL. Perform additional (time consuming) tests on input data and continue: 1) positively oriented elements, 2) nodes that have been defined as both slippery and faulted.
.br
test=2: Perform initialization and one single time step (if required) before stopping.
.TP
.BI "echo=0 or noecho"
Silent mode, i.e. set echoing off (this is the default). 
.TP
.BI "echo, echo=1"
Normal echoing mode. Major stages of the program are reported.
.TP
.BI "echo=2"
Print info on mechanical input file structure. Typically used
when "debugging" the mechanical input file.
.TP
.BI "echo=3"
Print what is written to "FEDSK.DAT" (only in "ASCII"-mode,
otherwise equivalent to "echo=1")
.TP
.BI "echo=4"
Print info on thermal input file structure. Typically used
when "debugging" the thermal input file.
.TP
.BI "echo=5"
Print info on the interaction between GTecton and PETSc.
Warning: This can yield a lot of output
.TP
.BI "echo=6"
Print info on the time spent in various part of the code. Useful for profiling.
.TP
.BI "echo=8"
Print info on the health of the various threads. Due to the need to synchronise the threads in order to produce readable output, 
this echo value will slow the code down considerably.
.TP
.BI "debug"
Prints extensive debugging information 
.TP
.BI "fedsk=[dirname/][basename]"
Writes FE-output according to how
.IR dirname
and
.IR basename
are supplied.

When only \fIbasename\fP is given, the output will be written
into \fIworkpath/basename.timestep.processorID\fP.

When only \fIdirname/\fP is given -- the '/' is required in this case
-- the output will be written into \fIworkpath/dirname/FEDSK.DAT.timestep.processorID\fP. (FEDSK
being the default output name.)

When both are given, the output will be written into \fIworkpath/dirname/basename.timestep.processorID\fP.

When this option is not used (\fBfedsk\fP should not be used without an argument)
the output will be written into \fIworkpath/FEDSK.DAT.timestep.processorID\fP.

.TP
.BI "fein=file"
Reads input from
.IR workpath/file
instead of
.IR workpath/TECIN.DAT, which is the default.
.TP
.BI "feout[=file]"
Writes extensive information on input and output of the FE
calculations to 
.IR workpath/FEOUT.DAT (default).
Optional =
.IR file 
replaces output file name
.IR workpath/FEOUT.DAT
by
.IR workpath/file. 
Note that this option does not work for runs on multiple processors.
For detailed information on the input on multiple-processors runs, consider using echo=22 instead.
.TP
.BI "nofeout"
Does not write 
.IR workpath/FEOUT.DAT.
This is the default.
.TP
.BI "noso"
During a \fIpln\fP run, all processors generate a temporary file in \fIFEM/\fP containing the TECIN.DAT file with all the included files explicitly included.
These file file can easily become larger than the available space on \fIFEM/\fP, when it is on /tmp, for example. To prevent this, include the files explicitly before running pln,
using \fBsoelim\fP (see: `man soelim'). During the run, provide the result of \fBsoelim\fP as argument to the \fBfein\fP option and add the \fBnoso\fP option.
This will cause all the processes to read the same complete file directly.
.TP
.BI "out=file"
Merge standard output and standard error into 
.IR workpath/file.
.TP
.BI "tempin=file"
Reads thermal FE-input from
.IR workpath/file
instead of 
.IR workpath/TEMPIN.DAT
(the default file name).
.TP
.BI "workpath=directory"
Directory that contains the model files. This is particularly useful when submitting a pln run to a cluster because 
compute nodes of the cluster do not necessarily know where the model input files are located. Defaults to current working
directory if not given.
.TP
.SH FILES
The names of all in and output files (except for \fBpetsc_options.txt\fP) can be changed (see OPTIONS). Names below refer to
defaults.
.I
.SS "Input files"
Except for \fBpetsc_options.txt\fP, all input files can be built from other include-files. Include-files are indicated by .so
.IR file,
\fBsoelim\fP can be used to examine the resulting file.
Input files all are in fixed format.
.TP
.BI petsc_options.txt
If the workpath contains this file, its content is read and the options in it are used for the initialisation of PETSc.
These options can finetune PETSc operation or give various outputs. 
The file contains one option (and where required a value) on each line. Example:

-ksp_view 
.br
-pc_type hypre
.br
-pc_hypre_type pilut
.br

will make PETSc:
.br
- output details about the solver context (ksp = Krylov SubsPace method)
.br
- use the external preconditioning package HYPRE
.br
- of the HYPRE package, use the pilut preconditioner.
.br

Typical options set the preconditioners, or the solver algorithm:

.BI "-pc_type TYPE"
When using the
.IR PETSc
iterative solvers, this flag allows to set the preconditioner that is used. Note that not all combinations of KSPs and preconditioners give stable results! Typical values for TYPE include:
.br

PCJACOBI          Jacobi
.br
PCSOR             Successive overrelaxation (default for multi-processor runs)
.br
PCLU              Lower-upper echelon decomposition for direct solve (default for single processor runs)
.br

Many other preconditioners are included in PETSc and a complete list can be found at:
https://www.mcs.anl.gov/petsc/petsc-current/docs/manualpages/PC/PCType.html#PCType

Most of those preconditioners have other options to finetune them in turn, that can be found on the PETSc website as well by clickin on the preconditioner.

.BI "-ksp_type TYPE"

PETSc allow the user to experiment with various solver algorithms. Typical values for TYPE include:

"none",
.br
"pcg" 		Preconditioned conjugate gradient (default)
.br
"gmres"		Generalized minimal residual method
.br
"jacobi"	Jacobi
.br
"sor" 		Successive overrelaxation 
.br
"lu" 		Direct solver, based on LU factorization
.br

Many more methods are included in PETSc and a complete list can be found on the PetSc site, under 
Krylov Subspace Types (KSP types)

.TP
.BI TECIN.DAT
FE input file. In this file the geometry of the finite element mesh and the mechanical properties and boundary conditions are defined.
.TP
.BI TEMPIN.DAT
FE input file. In this file the thermal properties and boundary conditions
are defined.
.SS Output files
.TP
.BI FEOUT.DAT
FE output file. This file gives a verbose report of in- and output
of the finite element program. The file is in ASCII format and tends to
get very big for many applications. It is not used for post-processing
and is intended to be used for elaborate checking of input data only.
.TP
.BI FEDSK.DAT
FE output file. Compact output used for post-processing (see \fIplnplt\fP).
If not explicitly set to ASCII (see OPTIONS), this file has binary format.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Environment variable MYTMP defines the directory where temporary files are
kept. If not set, temporary storage occurs in FEM/.
.PP
LD_LIBRARY_PATH should point to the PETSC home directory /lib in case that sparse
solvers are being used.
.SH SEE ALSO
pln(7), plnplt(1), triangle(1), partition(1), merge(1).
.SH "BUGS OR POSSIBLE FLAWS"
Report bugs to Rob Govers or Lukas van de Wiel (email: l.y.vandewiel@uu.nl).
.SH LITERATURE
.TP
.BI "GTECTON equations manual"
R. Govers, L.Y. van de Wiel and Wienand Drenth. All the equations that are coded into the FEM package.
.TP
.BI "Introduction to LAFEM modelling"
R. Govers. A suite of start problems, plus their solutions and workflow from the course "Lithosphere Applications of the Finite Element Method (LAFEM)".
.TP
.BI "GTECTON programmers manual"
L.Y. van de Wiel. Notes about program structure, code maintenance, data structures, ...
.TP
.BI "Benchmark guide"
R. Govers. Full description of benchmark problems including in- and output files.
