'\" t
.TH PLT3D 1 "February 4, 2021" "Utrecht University"
.UC 4
.SH NAME
plt3d \- research tool aimed at providing ways to 1) output files for direct visualization of 3D \fIGTecton\fP in- and output data,
2) monitor/probe the FEM output for nodes or elements with specific \fIGMSH\fP tags, and 3) monitor/probe FEM output for
specific node or element numbers.  Most of the output is written as Visualization Toolkit (VTK) files. In the current version, we 
use the VTK variant for SERIAL unstructured data (VTU). The data format is limited to ASCII, i.e., there is no BINARY support. 
\fIParaView\fP can read and visualize the VTU data.
.PP
NOTE: The functionality of the current version of the code is very limited. The most important limitation is that the change
in output data structure (nodal point based to element based) that comes with the introduction of faulted or slippery nodes is hardly recognized
and implemented. Monitoring is highly incompletely supported.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBplt3d\fP [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIplt3d\fP is an interactive program for examining finite element (FE)
input and output data. \fIplt3d\fP can also be viewed as a filter between FE program
\fIf3d\fP and visualization program \fIParaView\fP (for above aim 1).
.PP
When called without a file argument, \fIplt3d\fP reads commands from 
standard input (stdin). On-line help is provided in this interactive mode in by typing "?" or for example "? femi".
When a file argument is given, commands are read from this file until,
after the end-of-file (EOF) has been reached succesfully, commands
are read from stdin.
.SH VERSION
2021
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "noecho"
Silent mode, i.e. set echoing off (this is the default).
.TP
.BI "echo"
Echoing mode. Major stages of the program are reported.
.TP
.BI "file"
Commands file name.
.SH FILES
Files which are special to the program are described more extensively
in the \fIf3d\fP(7) manual pages. More specific, FE input files are
by default assumed to be "TECIN.DAT" and "TEMPIN.DAT". FE output is
by default assumed to reside in "FEDSK.DAT".
.SH SEE ALSO
f3d(1), gmsh(1), ParaView(1)
.SH "BUGS"
Report bugs to Rob Govers (email: r.govers@uu.nl).
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Rob Govers.
